------iops
------raid介绍

#iops
	input/output operation per second
	IOPS is a common performance measurement used to benchmark computer storage devices like hard disk drives(HDD)
		solid state drivers(SSD),and storage area networks(SAN). As with any benchmark, IOPS numbers published
		by storage device manufactures do not guarantee real-world application performance
	即每秒进行读写操作(I/O)的次数，多用于数据库等场合，衡量随机访问的性能
	存储端的iops性能和主机端的IO是不同的，IOPS是指存储每秒可接受多少次主机发出的访问，主机的一次IO需要多次访问
		存储才可以完成
	The most common performance characteristic are as follows:
		measurement		Description
		Total IOPS		Total number of I/O operation per second (when performing a mix of read and write tests)
		Random Read IOPS	Average number of random read I/O operations per second
		Random Write IOPS	Average number of random write I/O operations per second
		Random Read IOPS	Average number of sequential read I/O operations per second
		Random Write IOPS	Average number of sequential write I/O operations per second
	For HDDs and similar electromechanical storage devices, the random IOPS numbers are primarily dependent upon the 
		storage device's random seek time(寻道时间) 	'
	For SSDs and similar state storage devices, the random IOPS numbers are primarily dependent upon the storage device's   '
		internal controller and memory interface speeds.
	On both types of storage devices the sequential IOPS numbers(especial when using a large block size) typically indicate 
		the maximum sustained bandwidth that the storage device can handle
	Often sequential IOPS are reported as a simple MB/s number as follows:
		IOPS*TransferSizeInBytes = BytesPerSec(with the answer typically converted to MegabytesPerSec)
	EXAMPLE:
		Device			Type	IOPS		Interface
		7,200 rpm SATA drives	HDD	~75-100 IOPS	SATA 3 Gb/s
		10,000 rpm SATA drives	HDD	~125-150 IOPS	SATA 3 Gb/s
		15,000 rpm SAS drives	HDD	~175-210 IOPS	SAS

		#Solid State Devices
		http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/IOPS
#raid介绍
	RAID(Redundant Array of Independent Disks), one of the most common techniques to improve either data reliability
		or data performance (or both).
	The core RAID configurations are listed as:RAID-0,RAID-1,RAID-2,RAID-3,RAID-4,RAID-5, and RAID-6
	
	RAID-0
	1.This RAID configuration is really focused on performance since the blocks are basically striped across multiple disks.
	2.How the data is written to two disks
		the first block of data A0, is written to the first disk,the second block of data A1, is written to the second disk,
			the third block of data A3, is written to the firsh disk, and so on.
		If the I/O is happening fash enough data blocks can be written almost simultaneously(A0 and A1 are written at just 
			about the same time)
	3.Reading from a RAID-0 group is almostso very fast. A read request comes in and the RAID controller, which controls the placement
		of data, knows that it can read A0 and A1 at the same time since they are on separate disks, basically doubling the 
		potential read performance relative to a single disk.
	4.You can have as many disks as you want in a RAID-0 array (a group of disks in a RAID-0 configuration). However, if you lose 
		a disk in a RAID-0 array, you will lose access to all of the data in the array. If you can bring the lost disk back
		into the array without losing any data on it. then you can recover the RAID-0 array, but this is a fairly rare occurrence.
	5.RAID-0 is focused solely on performance with no additional data redundancy beyond the redundancy in a single disk.This affects 
		how RAID-0 is used. For example, it can be used in situations where performance is paramount and you have a copy of 
		your data elsewhere or the data is not import.
	6.The capacity is computed as:
		Capacity = n * min(disk sizes)
		#n is the number of disks in the Array
		#min(disk sizes) is the minimum common capacity across the drivers (this indicates that you can use drives of different 
			size)
	7.The failure rate is a little more involved but can also be estimated
		MTTFgroup = MTTFdisk / n
		#n is number of disks in the array
		#MTTF is the Mean Time To Failure(平均故障时间) and "group" refers to the RAID-0 array and "Disk" refers to a single disk.
	8.RAID-0 is the fastest RAID configuration and the best capacity utilization of any RAID configuration discussed in this article
	 Table about RAID-0
	 Raid Level	Pros					Cons		Storage Efficiency			Minimum Number of disks
	 RAID-0		*Performance(great read and write 	*No data 	100% assuming the drives are 		2
	 		performance)				redundancy	the same size	
			*great capacity(the best of any		*Poor MTTF
			standard RAID cofigurations)
	RAID-1
	1.How the data is written to RAID-1
		when block A1 is written to disk 0, the same block is also written to disk 1. Since the disks are independent of one another
			the write to disk 0 and the write to disk 1 can happen at the same time.
	2.when the data is read, the RAID controller can read block A1 from disk 0 and block A2 from disk 1 at the same time since the disk
		are independent. So overall, the write performance of a RAID-1 array s the same as a single disk and the read performance 
		acturally faster from a RAID-1 array relative to a single disk
	3.























