------Quorum
------RHCS Infrastructure
------split brain

#Quorum
	The most classic solution to selecting a single subcluster is a majority vote. If you choose a subcluster with more than
		half of the members in it, then you know there can't be any other subcluster like this one.
	SCSI reserve: both nodes try and reserve a disk partition available to both of them, and the SCSI reserve mechanism that
		only one of the two of them can succeed.
	Quorum Daemon: It has a number of significant advantages over SCSI reserve - one of which is that it can conveniently and 
		reliably operate over geographic distances, making it ideal for disaster recovery type situations.
#RHCS Infrastructure
	The cluster infrastructure performs the following functions:
	--Cluster management
	--Lock management
	--Fencing
	--Cluster configuration management	
	The maximum numbers of nodes supported in a Red Hat Cluster is 16
1. Cluster management
	CMAN keeps track of cluster quorum by monitoring the count of cluster nodes. If more than half the nodes are active, the 
		cluster has quorum. if half the nodes (or fewer) are active, the cluster does not have quorum, and all cluster 
		activity is stopped. Cluster quorum prevents the occurrence of a 'split-brain' condition. 
	Note: by default, each node has one quorum vote. Optionally, you can configure each node to have more than one vote.
2. Lock management
	Lock management is a common cluster-infrastructure service that provides a mechanism for other cluster infrastructure 
		components to synchronize their access to shared resources.
	In RHCS, DLM (Distributed Lock Manager) is the lock manager
3. Fencing
	Fencing is the disconnection of a node from the cluster's shared storage. Fencing cuts off I/O from shared storage, thus
		ensuring data integrity. The cluster infrastructure performs fencing through the fence daemon -- fenced.
	When CMAN determines that a node has failed, it communicates to other cluster-infrastructure components that the node has
		failed, fenced, when notified of the failure, fences the failed node.
	RHCS provides a variety of fencing methods:
	--Power fencing. a fencing method that uses a power controller to power off an inoperable node.
	--SCSI3 Persistent Reservation Fencing. A fencing method that uses SCSI3 persistent reservations to disallow access to
		shared storage.
	--Fibre Channel switch fencing. A fencing method that disables the Fibre Channel port that connects storage to an inoperable node.
	--GNBD fencing. A fencing method that disables an inoperable node's access th a GNBD server.
4. Clster Configuration System
	The cluster configuration system manages the cluster configuration and provides configuration information to other cluster
		components in a Red Hat cluster. CCS runs in each cluster node and makes sure that the cluster configuration file in 
		each cluster node is up to date.
	The cluster configuration file (/etc/cluster/cluster.conf) is an XML file that describes the following cluster characteristics:
	--Cluster name. Display the cluster name, cluster configuration file revision level, and basic fence timing properties used
		when a node joins a cluster or is fenced from the cluster.
	--Cluster. Display each node of the cluster, specifying node name, node ID, number of quorum votes, and fencing method for that node.
	--Fence Device. Displays fence devices in the cluster. Parameters vary according to the type of fencing device. For example 
		for a power controller used as a fence device, the cluster configuration defines the name of the power controller, its IP 
		address, login, and password.
	--Managed Resources. Display resources required to create cluster service. Managed Resources includes the definition of failover domains, 
		resources( for example an IP address), and services. Together the managed resources define cluster services and failover behavior
		of the cluster services.
5. High-availability Service Management
	Hige-availability service management provides the ability to create and manage high-availability cluster services in a Ret Hat cluster.
		The key component for high-availability service management in a Ret Hat cluster, rgmanager, implements cold failover for off-the-shelf
		applications. 
#split brain
	Clusters Systems are geared to handle peculiar situations like Amnesia and split brain conditions.
	Amnesia occurs when the cluster restarts after a shutdown with cluster data older than at the time 
		of the shutdown. This can happen if multiple versions of the framework data are stored on 
		disk and a new incarnation of the cluster is started when the latest version is not available.
	Split Brain occurs when a single cluster has a failure that results in reconfiguration of cluster 
		into multiple partitions, with each partitions forming its sub-cluster without the knowledge
		of the existence of other. This would lead to collision and corruption of shared data as 
		each sub-cluster assumes ownership of shared data.
	The methods that are used to solve Split Brain are "quorum" and "fencing"
	Fencing:
	  Resource fencing: if you know what resources a node might be using, then you can use some method of keeping it from
		accessing those resources. 
	  Node fencing: one can keep a node from accessing all resources -- without knowing what kind of resource
		it might be accessing, or how one might deny access to them. A common way of doing this is to power off or reset
		the errant node. This technique is also called SHONITH - which is a graphic and colorful acronym standing for 
		Shoot The Other Node In The Head.
